<p align='right'><a align="right" href="https://github.com/KIRANKUMAR7296/Library/blob/main/Interview.md">Back to Questions</a></p>

# `Python`

`Guido Van Rossum`

`PEP 8` : `Python Enhancement Proposal` Guidelines and best practices for writing clean `Python code`

1. Easy to **read**, **write** and **learn** ( **Code** )
2. **High** level programming language ( Similar to **english** language )
3. **Dynamically** typed ( **Data type** of object is based on its assigned **value** | Object can change its data type dynamically )
4. Abundance of **libraries** ( Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, etc. ) and **frameworks** ( Django, Flask, etc. )
5. Useful for Data Science, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Web Development and Automation.
6. **Portable** and **Flexible** ( Anaconda, Jupyter, Command Prompt, IDE, Text Editor, Google Colab )
7. **Open source** with **vibrant community**.
8. Rich **documentation** ( Python as well as documentation of all the libraries )
9. **Interpreted** language ( Executes the code **line by line** )
10. **Modularity** : Working in seperate **modules** | Helps to **focus** | Make development **easy** and less error prone.
11. **Reusability** : **Modules** can be easily reused by other part of the program.
12. **Fields** : Statistics, Data Science, ML, AI, Web Development, Automation, Data Analytics, System Admin, IOT, etc.

<h3 align="center">Interpreter vs Compiler</h3>

<table align="center">
        <tr>
                <th>Interpreter</th>
                <th>Compiler</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>Takes a single code of line at a time</td>
                <td>Translate entire program into an Intermediate Machine Code</td>
        </tr>      
        <tr>
                <td>Never generates any Intermediate Machine Object Code</td>
                <td>Generates an Intermediate Machine Code</td>
        </tr>    
        <tr>
                <td>Good for Software Development Environment</td>
                <td>Good for Production Environment</td>
        </tr>    
        <tr>
                <td>Error Detection is Easy</td>
                <td>Error Detection is not Easy</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>Python and Ruby</td>
                <td>C, C++, C# and Java</td>
        </tr>
</table>      

<h3 align="center">Pickling vs Unpickling</h3>

<table align="center">
        <tr>
                <th>Pickling</th>
                <th>Unpickling</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>Serialization : Convert object into byte streams or binary file</td>
                <td>Deserialization : Convert byte streams or binary file into object</td>
        </tr>
         <tr>
                <td>Serialize into format that can be stored</td>
                <td>Deserialize stored byte stream and load the object into memory</td>
        </tr>    
         <tr>
                <td>pickle.dump( )</td>
                <td>pickle.load( )</td>
        </tr>   
</table>      

<h3 align="center">Protected vs Private</h3>

<table align="center">
        <tr>
                <th>Protected</th>
                <th>Private</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
                <td>Attributes defined with Underscore ( _name )</td>
                <td>Attributes defined with Double Underscore ( __name )</td>
        </tr>      
         <tr>
                <td>Can be Accessed and Modified from outside the Class</td>
                <td>Cannot be Accessed and Modified from outside directly</td>
        </tr>               
</table>

### Function
- A piece of `Code`, capable of performing a similar task repeatedly.
- Function is defined using `def` keyword.

```python
def function_name(parameter1, parameter2,...):
    pass
    return value
```

### PEP- 8
- Python Enhancement Proposal
- Style Guidelines for **Clean Code**.

### Memory Management 
- Python **Memory Manager** | Private **Heap Space**
- All **Objects** are stored in Heap ( **Inaccessible** to the Programmers )
- In built **Garbage Collection** to **Recycle** the unused memory for the **Private Heap Space**.

### Decorator
- A **Decorator** takes in a **Function**, Adds some **Functionality** to that existing **Function** and Returns it without changing **Structure**.

### Self
- Define an **Instance** or an Object of a class.
- It helps to distinguish between the **Methods** and **Attributes** of a class.

### \_\_init\_\_
- A **Constructor Method**
- Automatically called to **Allocate** Memory when any new **Object | Instance** is created.
- It helps to distinguish between the **Methods** and **Attributes** of a class.

### break
- **Terminates** the loop and control flow to the Statement after the body of loop.

### continue
- **Terminates** the **Current Iteration** of the Statement
- **Skip** the rest of the Code in Current Iteration
- Control Flows to the Next Iteration of the Loop.

### pass
- Empty Statement 

### Generators
- Functions that returns an **Iterable Collection** of items.

### help( )
- Display **Documentation** of Modules, Classes, Functions, Keywords.

### dir( )
- List of Valid **Attributes** and **Methods** of an Object based on its Type and State.

### Define Function

``` Python
def functionname( parameter1, parameter2):
        pass
```        

### Call Function

```Python
functionname(argument1, argument2)
```

### Position of Arguments

```Python
def example(arg_1, arg_2, *args, **kwargs):
```

<p align='right'><a align="right" href="https://github.com/KIRANKUMAR7296/Library/blob/main/Interview.md">Back to Questions</a></p>
